#summary How to use PQ Libre.
#labels HOWTO,Tutorial,Featured

= Introduction =

PQ Libre is a tool for generating Pocket Queries, just like the ones you get from geocaching.com.

This page will tell you how to get started.


= Installation =

  # Install Java. You can get it for free [http://java.com here].
  # Download the correct binary file for your operating system from the [http://code.google.com/p/pqlibre/downloads/list Downloads] page.
  # That's it.

= Usage =
  # Go to the folder where you saved the downloaded file, and double-click on it.
  # This should open the login dialog. 
  # Enter your geocaching.com username and password, then press "Login".
  # After a few seconds the main dialog will open, here you can specify your search parameters.  
  # Press "Search" and wait.
  # When the search is complete you select where you want to save your .gpx file.
  # Done!

= Troubleshooting =
  * Q: When I double-click the file I don't get a login dialog, I get a list of files.
   A: Try right-clicking on the file, select open-with and specify Java. If you are using Windows you might want to try running [http://johann.loefflmann.net/en/software/jarfix/ JarFIX]  instead.

  * Q: When I double-click the file nothing happens.
   A: You don't have Java installed or you have the wrong version of the file. This often happens if you are running 32-bit Java on 64-bit Windows, or 64-bit Java on 32-bit Windows. Try downloading the other version than the one you have. If that doesn't work, try running [http://johann.loefflmann.net/en/software/jarfix/ JarFIX]. If all else fails, try uninstalling and reinstalling Java.

  * Q: The program crashed or did something else unexpected.
   A: There are still bugs. Please help us help you by submitting a bug report using the [http://code.google.com/p/pqlibre/issues/list "Issues"] link, above.